Contributing code back to Open Mind Common Sense
================================================

Open Mind is an open source project. If you see something you can improve in
the code, we encourage you to share your improvement with us so we can include
it in future versions.

GitHub branches and forks
-------------------------

As a developer, you have presumably checked out our code from GitHub. GitHub
makes it very easy to "fork" a project -- that's not as disruptive as it
sounds, it's just hosting a copy of the project under your own GitHub account.
In the fork, you can make whatever changes you want, you can pull our later
updates, and we can pull your updates when we want to include them in the main
repository.

Instructions on forking are at: http://help.github.com/forking/


If you work closely with us, you may have access to the main repositories under
"commonsense/". In that case, you don't have to make a complete fork; you can
just make a new branch where you make your changes.
http://progit.org/book/ch3-0.html is a very helpful guide to branching.

Letting Commonsense Computing redistribute your code
----------------------------------------------------

The code in the Open Mind project is available under multiple licenses.  In
order to maintain this situation when you contribute code to us from outside
the MIT Media Lab, we need permission from you to redistribute your
contributions to others under a different license.

So before we can merge your changes into the code we distribute, we need you to
give us written permission. Send an email to `conceptnet@media.mit.edu` with
the subject "Contribution agreement", containing the following text::

    I, <insert name here>, grant the MIT Media Lab an unrestricted license to
    redistribute my contributions to <insert project name here>, including any
    future revisions of those contributions.

    My contact information is:
      <your real name>
      <your address>
      <your phone number>

You're not signing over your copyright to us. The copyright remains yours; we
just get to redistribute your code. You will be credited for your contributions
in the source code. 

How does this compare to other open source projects?
....................................................
Our terms for contributors are most similar to the Qt_ project. Their
contributors have to sign a `contribution agreement`_ very similar to this one.

.. _Qt: http://qt.nokia.com
.. _`contribution agreement`: http://qt.gitorious.org/qt/pages/QtContributionGuidelines

